Sample questions
-----------------------------
What is devops
       Devops is software devwlopemwmt apporch which involes continous development continuous integration continuous testing continous deployment continous monitoring of the software through out the development life cycle. 

What are devops life cycle phases
Continous developemet
                    Integration 
                     Testing
                    Deployment        
                   Monitoring 
                  Operation
                  Feedback

Tell us few tools for every phase in devops
          Integration  jenkins
         Testing selenium
  

What are the benifts of devops
         Faster code delivery 
         High quality software 

How does the organization get benifited with the use of devops culture

What are the git commands
        Git is an devops tool used for source code management It is an open source version control system used to handle small very large code efficiently. 

▪git commands

git clone : This command is used to make a copy of a repository from an existing URL.

git add : This command is used to add one or more files to staging (Index) area

git status : The status command is used to display the state of the working directory and the staging area.

git push : It is used to upload local repository content to a remote repository.

git pull : Pull command is used to receive data from GitHub

▪what is local and remote repositry?

Local repositories reside on the computers of team members. In contrast, remote repositories are hosted on a server that is accessible for all team members - most likely on the internet or on a local network.

▪What is CI/CD?

CI/CD is a method to frequently deliver apps to customers by introducing automation into the stages of app development

▪Is it possible to push without commit cmd?
No

What is github
      Github is a website and Cloud based service which helps developers to store and manage the code as well as to track and control changes in their code. 

How does the github helps us/developer

Do you have an account with hithub
 Yes sir


Is it possible to push/upload on github without any git cmd

What is jenkins and how does it helps in CI/CD 
       Jenkins is an open source automation tool  It is written in java  It helps many project in automatic building and deploying .
It helps in distributing the work on multiple machines. It is used to implement CICD worlkflows called pipelines. 


What are the different way to use/install jenkins
     As a jar file deployed using Java.
As a repository in Linux environments.
As a war file deployed to a Servlet such as Apache Tomcat.
As a Docker container either locally or on a public or private cloud.

What is plugin in jenkins?
          Plugins are the primary means of enhancing the functionality of a Jenkins environment to suit organization- or user-specific needs
Docker
Jira
Slack notification
Mailer
Maven
Pipeline
Green box


Which plugin let you send email
Mailer

What is .war file and How does maven helps us in deploying an app

What is docket technology?What problems does it solves and how
             Docker is an opensource contanerization platform It enables developers to package application in containers 

What is dockerhub and do you an account on it
Docker Hub is a hosted repository service provided by Docker for finding and sharing container images with your team. 

How many provate repositories can we have on dockerhub
        One private repositories for free with our dockernhub user  account.. If you need more private repositories for your user account, upgrade your Docker Hub plan from your Billing Information page.

What is docker base image?can make modifications and reupload it for the rest of the world
           A docker base image is the image that is used to create all of your container images.

Do you have any app build using docker image

How to get data on local computer which is generated by container

How start ans stop docker

How to remove docker images

How to remove any specific container

How to know whcih container is being run now

What is puppet and how does it help admin
      Puppet is an open source tool while developing software this tool ensure that all configurations are applied everywhere. Basically it is the configuration management tool. 
      It is used for deploying managing and configuring servers. 
       Puppet is a system for automating the admin tasks In the puppet you have to describe end state of your system and the puppet software takes care of making sure the system meets that end state. 

What is resource in puppet

Exaplin any puppet code/How can we install a specific server and configure it on all 1000 nodes

What is nagios and why do we need it

What is dockerfile and explain few instructions in it
          A Dockerfile is a text document that contains all the commands a user could call on the command line to assemble an image
        
..........
All the best
------------------------------------------------------------
.pp file contents

 node 'it138' {

file {'/root/amar.txt':
     ensure => 'present',
     content => "by amar",
     }
}

node 'it137' {

file {'/root/example-ip1':                                            # resource type file and filename
  ensure  => present,                                               # make sure it exists
  mode    => 0644,                                                  # file permissions
  content => "Here is my Public IP Address: ${ipaddress_eth0}.\n",  # note the ipaddress_eth0 fact
}



  }
